---
layout: page
title: 'Arizona: RN License Renewal & Endorsement Education'
description: "Learn the basics of registered nurse license endorsement, renewal, and continuing education in Arizona. Stay up-to-date with your nursing credentials."
heading: 'Arizona'
state: AZ
statename: Arizona
published: true
motto: 'Welcome to the Grand Canyon state!'
compact: true
---
        
Each state needs a competent medical workforce to meet the needs of it's
citizens. However, the requirements for some health care professions are
not the same in each state. That is why it is important to find out what
is required of you as a future or current registered nurse before moving
across state lines. Contact information is located at the bottom of this
page.

#### Endorsements

Arizona is a compact state. If you are moving to Arizona or claiming it
as your primary state of residence, you will need to apply for
application by endorsement in order to use your license in Arizona.
General instructions are listed below.

​1. Provide proof of a passing NCLEX or State Board Test Pool exam
score.

​2. Applicants must have either a previous license or a current license
along with at least 960 hours of practice in the last five years.
Alternatives include

​a. Finishing a Board approved refresher course within the last 5 years.

​b. Completing and advanced degree.

​c. Graduating from a program and finishing a degree within the last
five years.

​3. While RN applicants do need to have a diploma or degree, there are
some exceptions. They can be found by clicking
[here](https://www.azbn.gov/licenses-certifications/apply-for-a-license).

​4. Applicants require approval by the Arizona Board if they are under
investigation.

Application fee is \$150. Temporary license fee is \$50 (optional).

Fingerprint fee is \$50. To view the instruction card, click
[here](https://www.azbn.gov/licensure-certification/fingerprint-card-instructions/ "link to fingerprint instruction card").

If your state does not participate in the Nursys Verification system you
must complete the [verification
form](https://www.azbn.gov/sites/default/files/forms/verification-form-042017.pdf "link to Arizona State Board of Nursing Verification Form")
and mail it to the state of your original license.

To view the Endorsement application packet, click
[here](https://www.azbn.gov/licenses-and-certifications/verification-for-endorsement "link to endorsement application packet").

To view the application instructions click
[here](https://www.azbn.gov/licensure-certification/application-instructions/rn-lpn-endorsement/ "Application instructions").

For Information regarding foreign educated requirements click
[here.](https://www.azbn.gov/licensure-certification/foreign-educated-requirements/ "Information regarding foreign educated requirements")

Applicants who meet the requirements above should submit their
application and fees by mail. Emailed and faxed applications will not be
accepted. A verification of the applicants original state of licensure
should also be included. These can be found at
[www.nursys.com](https://www.nursys.com/) or at
[www.azbn.gov/RNLPNEndorsement](https://www.azbn.gov/licenses-certifications/apply-for-a-license)
Applicants should provide proof of lawful presence in the United States.
Click [here](https://www.azbn.gov/Citizenship)for a list of acceptable
documents.

Note: Those with prior licensure in AZ must apply for renewal, not
endorsement.

#### Renewal

License renewals are \$160 + \$3 fee for online renewal. To renew online
go to
[https://myservices.azbn.gov/Login.asp](https://myservices.azbn.gov/Login.asp "Arizona State Board Renewal Page").

Arizona has information on refresher courses at
[https://www.azbn.gov/sites/default/files/nursing-lists/refresherprograms3-28-192.pdf](https://www.azbn.gov/sites/default/files/nursing-lists/refresherprograms3-28-192.pdf "refresher course information").

#### Continuing Competency

Arizona does not have any continuing education requirements.

The board requires that you have worked at least 960 hours in the last
five years in order to renew your license. If you have not met the
minimum number of hours, you may take a refresher course. Arizona Board
approved refresher courses can be found
[here](https://www.azbn.gov/sites/default/files/nursing-lists/refresherprograms3-28-192.pdf).

#### This state requires nurses to hold current [ACLS certification.](https://www.acls.net/arizona-acls-pals-bls)

#### Contact Information

Mailing/Physical Address

Arizona State Board of Nursing
4747 North 7th Street, Suite 200
Phoenix, AZ 85014-3655

Phone number: 602-771-7800

Fax number: 602-771-7888 Fax

Email Address: <arizona@azbn.gov>

Office Hours: 8:00AM-5:00PM Mon-Fri

Web Address:
[https://www.azbn.gov/](https://www.azbn.gov/ "Arizona Board of Nursing Home Page")

* * * * *

### FAQ

A link to the Arizon State Nursing Board's frequently asked questions
for renewal can be found
[here.](https://www.azbn.gov/licenses-and-certifications/license-renewal-faqs)
Endorsement FAQ can be found
[here.](https://www.azbn.gov/licenses-and-certifications/rn-lpn-endorsement-faq)
