---
layout: page
title: 'Iowa: RN license renewal & continuing education'
description: "Explore the details of RN license endorsement, renewal, and continuing education in Iowa. Enhance your nursing skills."
heading: "Iowa"
state: IA
statename: Iowa
published: true
motto: 'Welcome to the Hawkeye state!'
compact: true
---

Each state needs a competent medical workforce to meet the needs of it's
citizens. However, the requirements for some health care professions are
not the same in each state. That is why it is important to find out what
is required of you as a future or current registered nurse before moving
across state lines. Contact information is located at the bottom of this
page.

#### Endorsements

Iowa is a compact state. If you are moving to Iowa or claiming it as
your primary state of residence, you will need to apply for application
by endorsement in order to use your license in Iowa. General
instructions are listed below.

-   You must be a graduate of a Board approved nursing school

-   Passing NCLEX results

-   Completed
    [online](https://amanda-portal.idph.state.ia.us/ibon/portal/#/dashboards/index)or,
    paper application

  -   Fee of \$169 (Application fee includes \$119 for the application
    - \$50 Criminal Background Check fee)

  -   Paper application can be requested by phone or email

    -   <newnurse@iowa.gov>

    -   515.281.4826

  -   You may also download the paper application
        [here](https://nursing.iowa.gov/sites/default/files/media/Endorsement%20Form%2011%202014.pdf).

-   [Fingerprint
    cards](https://nursing.iowa.gov/sites/default/files/fingerprint_card_instructions_03_27_18.pdf)
    and background check. To view the [Waiver form for Iowa State board
    to complete background
    check](https://nursing.iowa.gov/sites/default/files/documents/2018/02/criminal-history-waiver-12-17.pdf)
    click
    [here.](https://nursing.iowa.gov/sites/default/files/documents/2018/02/criminal-history-waiver-12-17.pdf)

-   Official transcript

-   [Verification of Original License
    Form](https://nursing.iowa.gov/sites/default/files/documents/2018/06/verification_of_original_license_2018_06_15.pdf)
    or verification through [www.nursys.com](https://www.nursys.com)

-   Foreign educated nurses must submit a Professional Report from the
    [CGFNS Credentials Evaluation
    Service.](https://www.cgfns.org/services/ces-academic-report/)

To view Iowa's [endorsement
page](https://nursing.iowa.gov/licensure/endorsement-licensure-another-state),
click
[here](https://nursing.iowa.gov/licensure/endorsement-licensure-another-state).

You may renew your license
[online](https://amanda-portal.idph.state.ia.us/ibon/portal/#/dashboards/index)for
\$99. Renewal occurs every three years. Renewal must occur 30 days prior
to the 15th of licensee’s birth month; after this date it will be
considered late and an additional \$50 late fee will be incurred.

#### This state requires nurses to hold current [ACLS certification.](https://www.acls.net/iowa-acls-pals-bls.htm)

#### Continuing Competency

You must complete a [Mandatory Abuse
Course](https://nursing.iowa.gov/licensure/mandatory-reporters-child-and-adult-abuse-required-course)
every five years. You are also required to complete 2.4 continuing
education units (24 contact hours) for your first renewal and 3.6 units
(36 contact hours) for subsequent renewals. To view Iowa's [continuing
education](https://nursing.iowa.gov/continuing-education) page click
[here](https://nursing.iowa.gov/continuing-education).

#### Contact Information

[Iowa Board of Nursing](https://nursing.iowa.gov/whats-new)

Address

400 S.W. 8th Street
Suite B
Des Moines, IA 50309

Phone number: (515) 281-3255

Fax number: (515) 281-4825

Hours of operation: 8:00 am– 4:30 pm Monday through Friday

* * * * *

### FAQ

Click [here](https://nursing.iowa.gov/licensure/licensure-faq)to view
[Iowa's Licensure FAQ
page](https://nursing.iowa.gov/licensure/licensure-faq).

* * * * *
