---
layout: page
title: 'Maryland: RN License Renewal & Endorsement Education'
description: "Understand the process of registered nurse license endorsement, renewal, and continuing education in Maryland. Ensure the longevity of your nursing career.\r"
heading: "Maryland"
state: MD
statename: Maryland
published: true
motto: 'Welcome to the Old Line state!'
compact: true
---

Each state needs a competent medical workforce to meet the needs of it's
citizens. However, the requirements for some health care professions are
not the same in each state. That is why it is important to find out what
is required of you as a future or current registered nurse before moving
across state lines. Contact information is located at the bottom of this
page.

#### Endorsements

You must provide verification of licensure through NURSys -
[Link](https://www.nursys.com/) or if your state is not a participant of
NURSys you must fill out a Verification of Original Licensure form -
[Link](https://mbon.maryland.gov/Documents/verificationform.pdf) .
Contact your state of licensure for applicable fees.

Maryland is a compact state. If you are moving to Maryland or claiming
it as your primary state of residence, you will need to apply for
application by endorsement in order to use your license in Maryland.
General instructions are listed below.

-   US Social Security number or a Federal Tax ID number

-   [Passport style
    photo](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/requirements/photos.html)
    (Click
    [here](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/requirements/photos.html)
    for a tool to format a digital photo to passport standards)

-   \$100 dollar application fee (add \$40 for temporary license)

-   Complete [online
    application](https://license.mdbon.org/NETS/Home.asp)

-   [Criminal history
    check](https://mbon.maryland.gov/Pages/chrc-index.aspx) (\$57.25)

-   Criminal History Record Check FAQs
    [link](https://mbon.maryland.gov/Documents/FAQs%20CHRC%202.16%20REV.pdf)

-   For fingerprint card, please contact this email address:
    [mdbon\_nets@dhmh.state.md.us](mailto:mdbon_nets@dhmh.state.md.us?subject=Fingerprint%20Card&body=Hi%2C%0A%0AI%20was%20on%20the%20ACLS%20Training%20Center%20website%20RNMobility.com%20and%20read%20that%20I%20need%20to%20send%20an%20email%20here%20for%20my%20fingerprint%20card.%20Can%20you%20send%20me%20one%20so%20I%20can%20get%20licensed%20in%20Maryland%3F)

Maryland is a [compact state](https://www.ncsbn.org/Maryland.htm). Click
[here](https://www.ncsbn.org/Maryland.htm)for more information.

Renewals can be completed online for \$146 and take place every two
years.

The American Nurses Credentialing Center or one of it's local offices
must approve, present, or accept any continuing education credit. You
will not have to submit proof of continuing education at the time of
renewal; but, you should keep any documentation for four years in the
case of an audit. You must complete ten contact hours of continuing
education in the two years preceding renewal. Click
[here](http://www.health.ri.gov/for/nurses/index.php)for more
information.

#### Continuing Education Requirements

Maryland does not have any continuing education requirements. An
approved refresher course may be needed if you do not have the required
amount of hours for endorsement. [Link for approved refresher
courses](https://mbon.maryland.gov/Documents/refresh_course.pdf)

#### This state requires nurses to hold current [ACLS certification.](https://www.acls.net/maryland-acls-pals-bls.htm)

#### Contact Information

Web address:
[https://mbon.maryland.gov/Pages/default.aspx](https://mbon.maryland.gov/Pages/default.aspx)

For questions about licensure by endorsement please contact this Email
address
[mdbon\_nets@dhmh.state.md.us](mailto:mdbon_nets@dhmh.state.md.us?subject=Licensure%20by%20endorsement&body=Hi%2C%0A%0AI%20was%20on%20the%20ACLS%20Training%20Center%20website%20RNMobility.com%20and%20read%20that%20I%20can%20send%20my%20questions%20about%20licensure%20by%20endorsement%20here).

Address:

4140 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, MD 21215

Phone: 410.585.1900 or 888.202.9861

Fax: 410.358.3530

* * * * *
